So in this tutorial, we're going
to learn how to compute recency, frequency, and
mandatory value from the data set. We are starting from scratch,
so we opened module 1.R. Everything is clean, nothing has been
uploaded or loaded in our memory. So we going to read the data
from the purchases.txt file, as we did in the previous tutorial. Here it is. The data contains now
51,000 rows as usual. As we did last time,
we going to transform and set column name so
they're easier to manipulate and use. Later on, we're going to rename
the columns customer ID, purchase amount, and date of purchase, using the column
names instruction and function, we're going to tell r that this purchase
is not a string as it believes to be, but it's a date in the format of years,
months, date with a dash in between. We'll run it. And then we're going to compute
something a bit specific. We're going to compute
the number of days that lapse between January 1st, 2016 and
the date of purchase in the data. So we need to compute the time difference
between the very last day of the database. Actually the last day is December 31st,
2015. You take the 1st day of 2016 and
the date of purchase. And we're going to compute
the difference in days and store that difference in a new
variable called days since. We can actually aim to use
that to compute recency. Okay, now it's done. If we look at the data we have. The days since January 1st,
2016 and the date of purchase, in this case November 6th,
2009 and everything else. Okay? Now, again you can have a look at
the data with the summary on average, there's been 1,600 days
between any purchase observed in the database and
January 1st, 2016. And what we are going to do here
is to compute directly recency, frequency, and averaged initial amount. And we can do that using
an SQL like statement. So how does this work? Well it's a bit complex, so follow me. We are going to select the customer ID
of every customer found in the database. The trick here is that it will only
appear once for every customer. So even though we have 51,000
purchases we'll only have as many unique customer IDs as there are in
the database with that statement. Now, for each customer, we need to compute the minimum number of days
between all of his or her purchases and January 1st, 2016. Now, of course, if we take the minimum
number of days, then we are going to have the day of the last purchase,
which is the very definition of recency. Then for each customer we need
to compute the frequency, which is basically how many
purchases that customer has made. The asterisk here
basically means anything in the data that is related to that customer
we could have put any known variable here, it wouldn't change and then for
the amount we going to compute the average of purchase amount for
that specific customer ID and name that aggregate computation as amount. Now, the trick is that we'd
like to make sure that each row only appears one for each customer. So we going to compute that from the data
and group by one, meaning that everything here is going to be computed and
grouped per customer ID. And so if you run that statement, the output is a new data
set named customers and as you can see,
that data set only has 18,000 rows. Meaning that the only
18,000 unique customers in this data set of 51,000 purchases. So 18,000 customers have made
a total of 51,000 purchases. I should like to explore the data
which we just created called customers, you can of course look at the head and
as you can see for each customer ID we have the recency
the number of days between his or her most recent purchase and January 1,
2016. How many purchases that guy has made. That customer,
customer id number 10 has made only one. And the average purchase amount is 30. If you compute some summary statistics
about that new data set, called customers, you'll see that the average
recency of a customer is 1200. So, on average customers have lapsed for
about 4 years. Some have lapsed 10 years ago, some have lapsed only a few days ago,
but the average is four years. The minimum is barely wonder, the maximum is pretty much
the length of the entire data set. In terms of frequency,
some have made only one purchase. Actually, many have
made only one purchase. Some have made an astounding number
of 45 purchases over their lifetime, or at least over the 10 or
11 years we are observing, but on average,
people have made 2.8 purchase. And then in terms of amount, the average
amount goes from 5 to 4,500 and the mean is around $57 per
purchase per individual. If you like to have
a better look at the data, you can also look at the distribution
of recency, frequency, and average donation amount by creating
a histogram of the distribution. And as you can see,
here we are talking about recency. So you have a few customers whose
recency is about 4000 days, and a bunch of customers here whose
recency is much more recent. About 100 days or so. If you look at the histogram
in terms of frequency, it's even more extreme. Many people have made only 1 or
2 purchases, and then when you go 5, 10, 20, 30 purchases, they are even
rarer in the entire database. And then finally, in terms of amount,
the chart doesn't look very nice, simply because you have a lot of customers
who made purchases of $20, $50, $70. And then extremely few
who made purchases of much larger amounts, like $4000. So one One thing you can do is to
draw a histogram of customer amount. But making sure it shows many more breaks in the histogram
than you'd have naturally. So you can click Run here. You'll have actually a much more
detailed view of the histogram, and as you can see,
most people spend around $40, $50. A few spend over $100 and extremely few spend above $200,
on the average.