[MUSIC] In a previous video, we've showed that
customers are grouped together based on how similar or
dissimilar they are to one another. And that similarity can be
seen as a measure of distance. If two customers are very similar,
they are said to be close to one another. The issue that, sometimes,
to compute how similar two customers are, we have to compare apples and oranges. For instance, if you'd like to group
customers based on recency, frequency, and monetary value,
you are basically comparing variables that are measured in terms of days,
purchase occasions, and amounts. These segmentation variables do
not even use the same scales. How do you compare one to another? In segmentation studies,
data transformation is essential. You need to prepare and
transform your data, so your segmentation variables can
be compared to one another. When your segmentation variables
do not use the same scales, you need to standardize them. In statistical terms, to standardize
means that you subtract the mean and divide the data by its standard deviation. We won't go into the details,
but it simply means that, regardless of the actual scales used for
your segmentation variables, they will roughly be scaled back
within a range between minus two and plus two with some external values
falling outside that range. Now, regardless of what the original
scale was in days, dollars, or purchase occasions,
they can be compared to another. Another issue is to deal
with data dispersion and the best example is probably
about purchase amounts. When you look at the transactional
database, many customers will buy for moderate amounts and only a few
will buy for very large amounts. The distribution is said to be skewed and
may look something like that. So what's the problem? The problem is not statistical,
it's managerial. Would you say that a customer who
spends $5 on average is different from someone who spends $15 instead? Well, definitely the latter
generates three times more money at each purchase occasion. For a manager, they're definitely different, it might be
best if they were in different segments. But what about two customers who
spend $310 for the first and $320 for the second? From the managerial point of view,
not a big different, right? Yet, from a statistical point of view, the difference in purchase
amount Is exactly the same, $10. When you're facing that kind of situation, it might be worth transforming your data
and taking the logarithm of the amount. Once you take the log, the distribution
would look something like this. The same difference of $10 will have a
huge impact on the left part of the chart, those who spend the least, but a minor
influence on the right part of the chart, those who spend the most. It's not really necessary from
a statistical point of view, but from a marginal point of view, the segmentation
solution will make much more sense. Okay, now we are ready. In the next two videos, we prepare our
data for segmentation purpose, and then, we'll run a segmentation and
see what we got.